README.md, before:

# Getting Started

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Development

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.

### `yarn run deploy`

Deploys to github pages on the `gh-pages` branch.

### Styling

This project uses a combination of bootstrap-react via sass for components and themes and css modules for styling:
- https://react-bootstrap.netlify.app/
- https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-bootstrap/#using-a-custom-theme
- https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-css-modules-stylesheet

Commit message:

docs: add ui/component design to readme

README.md, after:

# My Personal Portfolio Website

Public Site: https://jimclair.github.io/

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), styled with bootstrap-react and custom css modules, and routed with react-router.

## UI Component Design

![Initial UI Design](./images/UI-Design.png)

## Development

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.

### `yarn run deploy`

Deploys to github pages on the `gh-pages` branch.

### Styling

This project uses a combination of bootstrap-react via sass for components and themes and css modules for styling:
- https://react-bootstrap.netlify.app/
- https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-bootstrap/#using-a-custom-theme
- https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-a-css-modules-stylesheet
